"Target Size Enhanced" - atomic rule (#2279)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/target-size-enhanced-gi8qkf.md

---

> id: gi8qkf

Author: For first pass of review, please focus on global structure to se whether this is a good structure for the rule. We'll discuss details of the definitions later.

  wcag21:2.5.5: # Target size (enhanced) (AAA)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag22:2.5.8: # Target Size (Minimum) (AA)
    secondary: 'This success criterion is **less strict** than this rule. This is because this criterion has a lower size requirement. Some of the failed examples may satisfy this success criterion.'
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jean-Yves Moyen
  test_assets: <a href="https://www.freepik.com/free-vector/black-white-town-navigation-map_5663353.htm">Map Image</a> designed by Freepik; <a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/zoom-out">Zoom-out icon</a> and <a href="https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/zoom-in">Zoom in icon</a> created by Rizki Ahmad Fauzi - Flaticon
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any [HTML element][namespaced element] which [can be targeted by a pointer event][], except when one of the following is true:

- the element has a [totally empty clickable area][]; or
- the element is [rendered on a line]; or
- the element is [User Agent controlled][user agent controlled component]; or

> - the element has [essential size][].

Reviewer: Just wondering if these should be in the expectation?

Author: The full point of #2214 and the CG discussion was to have them as Inapplicable 🤷

## Expectation

For each target element, at least one of the following is true:

- the element can be brought into viewport though scrolling with a [clickable area][] containing an [horizontal rectangle][] with width and height of at least 44 CSS pixels; or
- there is an [instrument][] to achieve an equivalent goal as the target element on the same page, and through scrolling this [instrument][] can be brought into viewport with a [clickable area][] containing an [horizontal rectangle][] with width and height of at least 44 CSS pixels.

## Background

> While the rule, and [Success Criterion 2.5.5 Target Size (enhanced)][sc255], apply targets of any shape, the test cases mostly focus on targets whose [clickable area][] is itself an [horizontal rectangle][]. This acknowledges the fact that the [border box][] of an element can easily be queried by automated tools (e.g., through the `getBoundingClientRect` function), and therefore it is expected that most automated tools will perform better on such elements. For elements with "weird" clickable shape, including `area` elements, nested targets, or elements that have been rotated or clipped, the actual [clickable area][] is much harder to determine and may be much smaller than the [border box][]. These elements could fail the rule while their [border box][] contain a large enough [horizontal rectangle][]. In order to allow automated tools to have a consistent implementation of this rule, it does not contain such test cases, notably all Failed test cases have a [border box][] which is too small.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the rule, and [Success Criterion 2.5.5 Target Size (enhanced)][sc255], apply targets of any shape, the test cases mostly focus on targets whose [clickable area][] is itself an [horizontal rectangle][]. This acknowledges the fact that the [border box][] of an element can easily be queried by automated tools (e.g., through the `getBoundingClientRect` function), and therefore it is expected that most automated tools will perform better on such elements. For elements with irregular clickable shapes, including `area` elements, nested targets, or elements that have been rotated or clipped, the actual [clickable area][] is much harder to determine and may be much smaller than the [border box][]. These elements could fail the rule while their [border box][] contains a large enough [horizontal rectangle][]. In order to allow automated tools to have a consistent implementation of this rule, it does not contain such test cases, notably all Failed test cases have a [border box][] which is too small.
```

	style="top: 56px;"
	alt="Zoom out"
	onclick="alert('Zooming out.')"
/>
```

#### Failed Example 10

The [clickable area][] of this button does not contain a 44×44px [horizontal rectangle][].

```html
<style>
	#target {
		width: 24px;
		height: 24px;
		border-radius: 0;
		rotate: 45deg;
	}
</style>
<button id="target" onclick="alert('Hello')">Hi</button>
```

#### Failed Example 11

The [clickable area][] of this button does not contain a 44×44px [horizontal rectangle][].

```html
<style>
	#target {
		width: 40px;
		height: 40px;
		border-radius: 30%;
	}
</style>
<button id="target" onclick="alert('hello')">Hello</button>
```

#### Failed Example 12

The [clickable area][] of this button only contains a 25×45px [horizontal rectangle][].

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed Example</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="/test-assets/target-size/shared-styles.css" />
	<style>
		#target {
			height: 50px;
			width: 40px;
			text-align: center;
			clip-path: polygon(10px 0px, 10px 45px, 35px 45px, 35px 0px);
			background-color: #0074d9;
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div id="target" role="button" onclick="alert('Hello')">
		Hi
	</div>
</body>
```

> ### Inapplicable

Reviewer: Shouldn't we have one with a clickable area that is not a semantic widget?

Author: 🤔 Wouldn't that be bad for 1.3.1?
a `<span onclick="alert('Hello')">Say hello</span>` would fail 1.3.1. We can have one (with associated caveats), but I'm afraid it would cause problems for tools that do not have the same separation as ACT rules and would (rightfully) fail it.
